This paper highlights the strengths and weaknesses of new college graduates when they enter their first software development job. Based on a study of around 85 hours of observation of new software developers, the author conludes that they are extremely proficient in coding, reading/writing specifications and persistence with a given task. However, these new graduates struggle when it comes to communication, collaboration, learning large-scale development tools, organizing and documenting infrmation they needed to absorb and getting themselves oriented in the new environment.The author identifies misconceptions about the expectations that these new people have fromtheir new job like having to everything themselves etc. The author suggests changes to the university curriculum that trains university graduates by proposing that the students be trained on fixing bugs in already existing large code-bases and to ask for help when they are stuck.

According to me, this paper identifies the key gaps in our academic durriculum which is too development focused and vey little attention is paid on testing, debugging in large code-bases and documenting whatever you have. These are essential skills to have when entering the job market therefore calling for adjustments to the curriculum to include this skill as well would go a long way in increasing the quality of the developers being churned out.

Investigations into bridging the gap between industry and academia are quite rare and therefore this paper moves research forward by identifying the problems and presenting possible solutions to them. I believe that their conclusions are only supported by a   85-hour observation might be inadequate and requires verification from multiple sources like managers etc so that it is more credible.

University professors should take into account the skills that these graduates lack and should adjust their courses to give them training in practicing these skills. However, the research touches upon very brefly on what university professors could do to improve the quality of their students. urther research into tthe different teaching methodoloigies and their effectiveness to inculcate these lacking skills could prove to be an interesting follow-on wrk.

